Adding Nested Function Documentation (#4308)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _search-plugins/sql/sql/nested.md

---
layout: default
title: Nested Function
parent: SQL
grand_parent: SQL and PPL
nav_order: 13
has_toc: true
redirect_from:
- /search-plugins/sql/nested/
---

> # Nested

Reviewer: We need to include an intro sentence to let reader know what this topic is covering. We also need to avoid stacked headings. Here's a suggestion: 

Nested functions, also known as inner functions, are functions defined within other functions. They offer advantages like improved modularity and localized functionality, and are useful for tasks like complex calculations or creating event handlers.

```sql
SELECT nested(message.info) FROM nested_objects WHERE nested(message.info) = 'letter2';
SELECT nested(message.info) FROM nested_objects WHERE nested(message, message.info = 'letter2');
```

Dataset:
```json
{
  "message": {
    "message": [
      { "info": "letter1" },
      { "info": "letter2" }
    ]
  }
}
```

The results contain documents that match the nested query:

| nested(message.info) |
:----------------------|
letter2                |

## Nested In ORDER BY Clause

Sorting based on nested fields across documents can be accomplished by using the nested function in the `ORDER BY` clause of an SQL query. 

### Syntax

By default the `ORDER BY` will be in `ASC` order. The user can specify `ASC` or `DESC` after the nested function to specify an order in the query.

```sql
nested(field_expression | field_expression, path_expression)
```

### Query Example

The following example uses nested queries in the `ORDER BY` clause:

```sql
SELECT nested(message.info) FROM nested_objects ORDER BY nested(message.info) DESC;
```

Dataset:
```json
{
  "message": {
    "message": [
      { "info": "letter1" },
      { "info": "letter2" }
    ]
  }
}
```

> The results contain documents that match the nested query:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The results contain the following documents that match the nested query:
```

| nested(message.info) |
:----------------------|
letter2                |
letter1                |

> ## Nested In Aggregation Queries

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Nested in aggregation queries
```

> Nested fields can be aggregated by using the nested function in the GROUP BY clause and filtered in the HAVING clause of an SQL query. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Nested fields can be aggregated in the `GROUP BY` clause and filtered in the `HAVING` clause using the `nested` function within SQL queries.
```

### Syntax

```sql
nested(field_expression | field_expression, path_expression)
```

> ### Query Example

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Example query
```

The following example uses nested queries in the `GROUP BY` and `HAVING` clauses:

```sql
SELECT count(*) FROM nested_objects GROUP BY nested(message.info) HAVING count(*) > 1;
```

> Dataset:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Example dataset
```

```json
{
  {
    "message": [
      {"info": "letter1"},
      {"info": "letter2"}
    ]
  },
  {
    "message": [
      {"info": "letter1"},
      {"info": "letter3"}
    ]
  }
}
```

> The results contain documents that match the nested query:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The results contain the following documents that match the nested query:
```
